CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

## Welcome!

We’re so glad you’re thinking about contributing to a Technology Transformation Services (TTS) open source project! If you’re unsure about anything, just ask — or submit your issue or pull request anyway. The worst that can happen is we’ll politely ask you to change something. We appreciate all friendly contributions.

TTS is committed to building a safe, welcoming, harassment-free culture for everyone. We expect everyone on the TTS team and everyone within TTS spaces, including contributors to our projects, to follow the [TTS Code of Conduct](https://github.com/18F/code-of-conduct/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md).

We encourage you to read this project’s CONTRIBUTING policy (you are here), its [LICENSE](LICENSE.md), [README](README.md)

If you have any questions or want to read more, check out the [18F Open Source Policy GitHub repository]( https://github.com/18f/open-source-policy), or [send us an email](mailto:18f@gsa.gov).


## Pull request guidelines

Below are rules we strive to follow to achieve maintainable and consistent code.

### Commit message style guide:

- Write your commit message summary in the imperative: "Fix bug" and not
"Fixed bug" or "Fixes bug."  This convention matches up with commit messages
generated by commands like `git merge` and `git revert`.

- Under the summary, start by explaining why this change is necessary, and
add details to help the person reviewing your code understand what your
pull request is about.

- If the pull request is in response to a Jira ticket, include the ticket ID in
the commit title (e.g. "LG-1234 Add the stuff to the thing")

- Include a changelog message which describes the changes in human-readable
terms. These messages are included in release notes, so they should be easy to
understand for our partners and users. In the rare case that a change should
not be included in release notes, add `[skip changelog]` to the commit.

Example:

```
LG-1235 Load seed using before(:suite) in RSpec config

**Why**:
- Loading the seed in a `before(:each)` block results in an unnecessary
database call before every single test, slowing down the test suite,
and making development less efficient.

**How**:
- Use `before(:suite)` instead, since the data that is loaded is not
meant to change, and so that only one database call is made.
- To prevent the data from being wiped out after each spec, configure
Database Cleaner to ignore those static tables.

changelog: Internal, Automated Testing, Improve performance of test suite
```

Choose from one of the following changelog categories:

- **Improvements** are user-facing improvements to the application experience, such as a new UI component or updated text.
- **Bug Fixes** are corrections to a broken behavior, such as preventing a raised exception.
- **Internal** are changes which benefit the Login.gov team, such as analytics or code quality.
- **Upcoming Features** are iterations contributing to a feature which has not yet been enabled for users in production.

### Additional notes on pull requests and code reviews

Please follow our [Code Review][review] guidelines.
[Glen Sanford's thoughts on code reviews][thoughts] are also well worth
reading.

[review]: https://engineering.18f.gov/code-review/
[thoughts]: http://glen.nu/ramblings/oncodereview.php

- Keep pull requests as small as possible, and focused on a single topic
- Once a pull request is good to go, the person who opened it squashes related
commits together, merges it, then deletes the branch.

## Public domain

This project is in the public domain within the United States, and
copyright and related rights in the work worldwide are waived through
the [CC0 1.0 Universal public domain dedication][CC0].

All contributions to this project will be released under the CC0
dedication. By submitting a pull request, you are agreeing to comply
with this waiver of copyright interest.

[CC0]: https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
[FormResponse]: https://github.com/18F/identity-idp/blob/master/app/services/form_response.rb
[EmailConfirmationTokenValidator]: https://github.com/18F/identity-idp/blob/master/app/services/email_confirmation_token_validator.rb
[PasswordForm]: https://github.com/18F/identity-idp/blob/master/app/forms/password_form.rb
[cache poisoning attacks]: https://github.com/rails/rails/issues/29893

Commit message:

Expand changelog documentation with more detail (#6980)
* Expand changelog documentation with more detail

**Why**: For better clarity around the overall form of a changelog message, where it should exist, and details about subcategory and description of the message.

changelog: Internal, Documentation, Document available changelog categories

* Add example for subcategory

https://github.com/18F/identity-idp/pull/6980/files#r973265287

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

## Welcome!

We’re so glad you’re thinking about contributing to a Technology Transformation Services (TTS) open source project! If you’re unsure about anything, just ask — or submit your issue or pull request anyway. The worst that can happen is we’ll politely ask you to change something. We appreciate all friendly contributions.

TTS is committed to building a safe, welcoming, harassment-free culture for everyone. We expect everyone on the TTS team and everyone within TTS spaces, including contributors to our projects, to follow the [TTS Code of Conduct](https://github.com/18F/code-of-conduct/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md).

We encourage you to read this project’s CONTRIBUTING policy (you are here), its [LICENSE](LICENSE.md), [README](README.md)

If you have any questions or want to read more, check out the [18F Open Source Policy GitHub repository]( https://github.com/18f/open-source-policy), or [send us an email](mailto:18f@gsa.gov).


## Pull request guidelines

Below are rules we strive to follow to achieve maintainable and consistent code.

### Commit message style guide:

- Write your commit message summary in the imperative: "Fix bug" and not
"Fixed bug" or "Fixes bug."  This convention matches up with commit messages
generated by commands like `git merge` and `git revert`.

- Under the summary, start by explaining why this change is necessary, and
add details to help the person reviewing your code understand what your
pull request is about.

- If the pull request is in response to a Jira ticket, include the ticket ID in
the commit title (e.g. "LG-1234 Add the stuff to the thing")

- Include a changelog message which describes the changes in human-readable
terms. These messages are included in release notes, so they should be easy to
understand for our partners and users. In the rare case that a change should
not be included in release notes, add `[skip changelog]` to the commit.

Example:

```
LG-1235 Load seed using before(:suite) in RSpec config

**Why**:
- Loading the seed in a `before(:each)` block results in an unnecessary
database call before every single test, slowing down the test suite,
and making development less efficient.

**How**:
- Use `before(:suite)` instead, since the data that is loaded is not
meant to change, and so that only one database call is made.
- To prevent the data from being wiped out after each spec, configure
Database Cleaner to ignore those static tables.

changelog: Internal, Automated Testing, Improve performance of test suite
```

#### Changelog Messages

You must include a changelog message in one commit of your pull request.

A changelog message should be written in the following format:

```
changelog: [Category], [Subcategory], [Description]
```

Replace `[Category]`, `[Subcategory]`, and `[Description]` with text relevant for your changes:

- **Category** must be one of the following:
   - **Improvements** are user-facing improvements to the application experience, such as a new UI component or updated text.
   - **Bug Fixes** are corrections to a broken behavior, such as preventing a raised exception.
   - **Internal** are changes which benefit the Login.gov team, such as analytics or code quality.
   - **Upcoming Features** are iterations contributing to a feature which has not yet been enabled for users in production.
- **Subcategory** does not have any restrictions, but you should try to maintain consistency with changesets affecting similar parts of the application (for example, "In-person proofing").
- **Description** is a plain language description of the specific changes.

If multiple pull requests iterate on the same feature, it's a good idea to use the same commit message, since identical messages will be combined into a single entry when the release notes are compiled.

### Additional notes on pull requests and code reviews

Please follow our [Code Review][review] guidelines.
[Glen Sanford's thoughts on code reviews][thoughts] are also well worth
reading.

[review]: https://engineering.18f.gov/code-review/
[thoughts]: http://glen.nu/ramblings/oncodereview.php

- Keep pull requests as small as possible, and focused on a single topic
- Once a pull request is good to go, the person who opened it squashes related
commits together, merges it, then deletes the branch.

## Public domain

This project is in the public domain within the United States, and
copyright and related rights in the work worldwide are waived through
the [CC0 1.0 Universal public domain dedication][CC0].

All contributions to this project will be released under the CC0
dedication. By submitting a pull request, you are agreeing to comply
with this waiver of copyright interest.

[CC0]: https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
[FormResponse]: https://github.com/18F/identity-idp/blob/master/app/services/form_response.rb
[EmailConfirmationTokenValidator]: https://github.com/18F/identity-idp/blob/master/app/services/email_confirmation_token_validator.rb
[PasswordForm]: https://github.com/18F/identity-idp/blob/master/app/forms/password_form.rb
[cache poisoning attacks]: https://github.com/rails/rails/issues/29893
