docs/frontend.md, before:

# Front-end architecture

## CSS + HTML

### At a Glance

- Leverages components and utilities from the [Login.gov Design System](https://design.login.gov/),
  which is based on the [U.S. Web Design System](https://designsystem.digital.gov/).
- Uses [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) as the CSS preprocessor and [Stylelint](https://stylelint.io/)
  to keep files tidy.
- Uses well-structured, accessible, semantic HTML.

### Design System

To the extent possible, use design system components and utilities when implementing designs.

**Components** are simple and consistent solutions to common user interface needs, like form fields,
buttons, and icons. Any component from the U.S. Web Design system is available to use. Through the
Login.gov Design System, we have customized some of these components to suit our needs.

- [Login.gov components](https://design.login.gov/components/)
- [U.S. Web Design System components](https://designsystem.digital.gov/components/overview/)

**Utilities** are CSS classes which allow you to add consistent styling to an HTML element, such as
margins or borders.

- [U.S. Web Design System utilities](https://designsystem.digital.gov/utilities/)

### Stylelint

Login.gov publishes and uses
[our own custom Stylelint configuration](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@18f/identity-stylelint-config),
which is based on [TTS engineering best-practices](https://engineering.18f.gov/css/) and includes recommended Sass rules, applies [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) formatting, and
enforces
[BEM-style class naming conventions](https://en.bem.info/methodology/naming-convention/#two-dashes-style).

It may be useful to consider installing a
[Prettier editor integration](https://prettier.io/docs/en/editors.html) to automatically format
files on save. Similarly, a
[Stylelint editor integration](https://stylelint.io/user-guide/integrations/editor) can help
identify issues in your code as you write.

## JavaScript

### At a Glance

- All new code is expected to be written using [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) (`.ts` or `.tsx` file extension)
- The site should be functional even when JavaScript is disabled, with a few specific exceptions (identity proofing)
- The code follows [TTS JavaScript standards](https://engineering.18f.gov/javascript/), using a [custom ESLint configuration](https://github.com/18F/identity-idp/tree/main/app/javascript/packages/eslint-plugin)
- Code styling is formatted automatically using [Prettier](https://prettier.io/)
- Packages are managed with [Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/), organized using [Yarn workspaces](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/workspaces/)
- JavaScript is transpiled, bundled, and minified via [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) and [Babel](https://babeljs.io/)

### Prettier

[Prettier](https://prettier.io/) is an opinionated code formatter which simplifies adherence to
JavaScript style standards, both for the developer and for the reviewer. As a developer, it can
eliminate the effort involved with applying correct formatting. As a reviewer, it avoids most
debates over code style, since there is a consistent style being enforced through the adopted
tooling.

Prettier works reasonably well in combination with Airbnb's JavaScript standards. In the few cases
where conflicts occur, formatting rules may be disabled to err toward Prettier conventions when an
option is not configurable.

Prettier is integrated with [the project's linting setup](#eslint). Most issues can be resolved
automatically by running `yarn run lint --fix`. You may also consider one of the
[available editor integrations](https://prettier.io/docs/en/editors.html), which can simplify your
workflow to apply formatting automatically on save.

### Yarn Workspaces

[Workspaces](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/workspaces/) allow a developer to create and
organize code which is used just like any other NPM package, but which doesn't require the overhead
involved in publishing those modules and keeping versions in sync across multiple repositories. The
IDP uses Yarn workspaces to keep JavaScript code organized, reusable, and to encourage good coding
practices in abstractions.

In practice:

- All folders within `app/javascript/packages` are treated as workspace packages.
- Each package should have its own `package.json` that includes...
  - ...a `name` starting with `@18f/identity-` and ending with the name of the package folder.
  - ...a listing of its own dependencies, including to other workspace packages using
    [`file:` prefix](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/cli/add/).
  - ...[`"private": true`](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#private), since workspaces
    packages are currently not published to NPM.
  - ...a value for the `version` field, since it is required. The value value can be anything, and
    `"1.0.0"` is a good default.
- Each package should include an `index.js` which serves as the entry-point and public API for the
  package.

A package might have a corresponding file by the same package name contained within
`app/javascript/packs` that serves as the integration point between packages and the Rails
application. This is to encourage packages to be reusable, where the file in `packs` contains any
logic required to wire the package to the running Rails application. Because Yarn will alias
workspace packages using symlinks, you can reference a package using the name you assigned using the
guidelines above for `package.json` `name` field (for example,
`import { Button } from '@18f/identity-components';`).

### Dependencies

While the project is not a Node.js application or library, the distinction between `dependencies`
and `devDependencies` is important due to how assets are precompiled in deployed environments.
During a deployment, dependencies are installed using [the `--production` flag](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/install/#toc-yarn-install-production-true-false),
meaning that all dependencies which are required to build the project must be defined as
`dependencies`, not as `devDependencies`.

`devDependencies` should be reserved for dependencies which are not required to compile application
assets, such as testing-related libraries or [DefinitelyTyped](https://www.typescriptlang.org/dt/)
TypeScript declaration packages. When possible, it is still useful to define `devDependencies` to
improve the performance of application asset compilation.

When installing new dependencies, consider whether the dependency is relevant for an individual
workspace package, or for the entire project. By default, Yarn will warn when trying to install a
dependency in the root package, since dependencies should typically be installed for a specific
workspace.

To install a dependency to a workspace:

```bash
yarn workspace @18f/identity-build-sass add sass-embedded
```

To install a dependency to the project:

```bash
# Note the `-W` flag
yarn add -W webpack
```

As much as possible, try to use the same version of a dependency when it is used across multiple
workspace packages. Otherwise, it can inflate the size of the compiled bundles and have a negative
performance impact on users. Similarly, consider using a tool like [`yarn-deduplicate`](https://github.com/scinos/yarn-deduplicate)
to deduplicate resolved package versions within the Yarn lockfile.

### Components

We use a mixture of complementary component implementation approaches to support both server-side
and client-side rendering.

#### View Components

The [ViewComponent gem](https://viewcomponent.org/) is a framework for creating reusable, testable,
and independent view components, rendered server-side.

For more information, refer to the [components `README.md`](../app/components/README.md).

#### React

For non-trivial client-side interactivity, we use [React](https://reactjs.org/) to build and combine
JavaScript components for stateful applications.

#### Custom Elements

For simple client-side interactivity tied to singular components (React or ViewComponent), we use
[native custom elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components/Using_custom_elements).

Custom elements provide several advantages in that they...

- can be initialized from any markup renderer, supporting both server-side (ViewComponent) and
  client-side (React) component implementations
- have no dependencies, limiting overall page size in the critical path
- are portable and avoid vendor lock-in (e.g. for use in a [design system](https://design.login.gov))

## Testing

### At a Glance

JavaScript tests include a combination of unit tests and integration tests, with a heavier emphasis
on integration tests since the bulk of our front-end code is in service of user interactivity.

To simplify common test behaviors and encourage best practices, we make extensive use of the
[Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/) suite of testing libraries, which can be used to
render and query [basic DOM elements](https://testing-library.com/docs/dom-testing-library/intro) as
well as advanced [React components](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro).
Their APIs are designed in a way to [accurately simulate real user behavior](https://testing-library.com/docs/user-event/intro)
and support [querying by accessible semantics](https://testing-library.com/docs/queries/byrole).

### Running Tests

#### Mocha

[Mocha](https://mochajs.org/) is used as a test runner for JavaScript code.

To run all test specs:

```
yarn test
```

To run a single test file:

```
npx mocha spec/javascripts/app/utils/ms-formatter_spec.js
```

Using `npx`, you can also pass any
[Mocha command-line arguments](https://mochajs.org/#command-line-usage).

For example, to watch a file and rerun tests after any change:

```
npx mocha spec/javascripts/app/utils/ms-formatter_spec.js --watch
```

#### ESLint

[ESLint](https://eslint.org/) is used to ensure code quality and enforce styling conventions.

To analyze all JavaScript files:

```
yarn run lint
```

Many issues can be fixed automatically by appending a `--fix` flag to the command:

```
yarn run lint --fix
```

## Devices

The application should support:

- All browsers with >1% usage according to our own analytics
- All device sizes

## Additional Resources

You can find additional frontend documentation in relevant places throughout the code:

- [`app/components/README.md`](../app/components/README.md)
- [`app/javascript/app/README.md`](../app/javascript/app/README.md)
- [`app/javascript/packages/README.md`](../app/javascript/packages/README.md)
- [`app/javascript/packs/README.md`](../app/javascript/packs/README.md)

Commit message:

Support sourcemap output for production builds
changelog: Internal, Build Tooling, Support sourcemap output for production builds to improve debugging

docs/frontend.md, after:

# Front-end architecture

## CSS + HTML

### At a Glance

- Leverages components and utilities from the [Login.gov Design System](https://design.login.gov/),
  which is based on the [U.S. Web Design System](https://designsystem.digital.gov/).
- Uses [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) as the CSS preprocessor and [Stylelint](https://stylelint.io/)
  to keep files tidy.
- Uses well-structured, accessible, semantic HTML.

### Design System

To the extent possible, use design system components and utilities when implementing designs.

**Components** are simple and consistent solutions to common user interface needs, like form fields,
buttons, and icons. Any component from the U.S. Web Design system is available to use. Through the
Login.gov Design System, we have customized some of these components to suit our needs.

- [Login.gov components](https://design.login.gov/components/)
- [U.S. Web Design System components](https://designsystem.digital.gov/components/overview/)

**Utilities** are CSS classes which allow you to add consistent styling to an HTML element, such as
margins or borders.

- [U.S. Web Design System utilities](https://designsystem.digital.gov/utilities/)

### Stylelint

Login.gov publishes and uses
[our own custom Stylelint configuration](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@18f/identity-stylelint-config),
which is based on [TTS engineering best-practices](https://engineering.18f.gov/css/) and includes recommended Sass rules, applies [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) formatting, and
enforces
[BEM-style class naming conventions](https://en.bem.info/methodology/naming-convention/#two-dashes-style).

It may be useful to consider installing a
[Prettier editor integration](https://prettier.io/docs/en/editors.html) to automatically format
files on save. Similarly, a
[Stylelint editor integration](https://stylelint.io/user-guide/integrations/editor) can help
identify issues in your code as you write.

## JavaScript

### At a Glance

- All new code is expected to be written using [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) (`.ts` or `.tsx` file extension)
- The site should be functional even when JavaScript is disabled, with a few specific exceptions (identity proofing)
- The code follows [TTS JavaScript standards](https://engineering.18f.gov/javascript/), using a [custom ESLint configuration](https://github.com/18F/identity-idp/tree/main/app/javascript/packages/eslint-plugin)
- Code styling is formatted automatically using [Prettier](https://prettier.io/)
- Packages are managed with [Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/), organized using [Yarn workspaces](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/workspaces/)
- JavaScript is transpiled, bundled, and minified via [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) and [Babel](https://babeljs.io/)

### Prettier

[Prettier](https://prettier.io/) is an opinionated code formatter which simplifies adherence to
JavaScript style standards, both for the developer and for the reviewer. As a developer, it can
eliminate the effort involved with applying correct formatting. As a reviewer, it avoids most
debates over code style, since there is a consistent style being enforced through the adopted
tooling.

Prettier works reasonably well in combination with Airbnb's JavaScript standards. In the few cases
where conflicts occur, formatting rules may be disabled to err toward Prettier conventions when an
option is not configurable.

Prettier is integrated with [the project's linting setup](#eslint). Most issues can be resolved
automatically by running `yarn run lint --fix`. You may also consider one of the
[available editor integrations](https://prettier.io/docs/en/editors.html), which can simplify your
workflow to apply formatting automatically on save.

### Yarn Workspaces

[Workspaces](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/workspaces/) allow a developer to create and
organize code which is used just like any other NPM package, but which doesn't require the overhead
involved in publishing those modules and keeping versions in sync across multiple repositories. The
IDP uses Yarn workspaces to keep JavaScript code organized, reusable, and to encourage good coding
practices in abstractions.

In practice:

- All folders within `app/javascript/packages` are treated as workspace packages.
- Each package should have its own `package.json` that includes...
  - ...a `name` starting with `@18f/identity-` and ending with the name of the package folder.
  - ...a listing of its own dependencies, including to other workspace packages using
    [`file:` prefix](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/cli/add/).
  - ...[`"private": true`](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#private), since workspaces
    packages are currently not published to NPM.
  - ...a value for the `version` field, since it is required. The value value can be anything, and
    `"1.0.0"` is a good default.
- Each package should include an `index.js` which serves as the entry-point and public API for the
  package.

A package might have a corresponding file by the same package name contained within
`app/javascript/packs` that serves as the integration point between packages and the Rails
application. This is to encourage packages to be reusable, where the file in `packs` contains any
logic required to wire the package to the running Rails application. Because Yarn will alias
workspace packages using symlinks, you can reference a package using the name you assigned using the
guidelines above for `package.json` `name` field (for example,
`import { Button } from '@18f/identity-components';`).

### Dependencies

While the project is not a Node.js application or library, the distinction between `dependencies`
and `devDependencies` is important due to how assets are precompiled in deployed environments.
During a deployment, dependencies are installed using [the `--production` flag](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/install/#toc-yarn-install-production-true-false),
meaning that all dependencies which are required to build the project must be defined as
`dependencies`, not as `devDependencies`.

`devDependencies` should be reserved for dependencies which are not required to compile application
assets, such as testing-related libraries or [DefinitelyTyped](https://www.typescriptlang.org/dt/)
TypeScript declaration packages. When possible, it is still useful to define `devDependencies` to
improve the performance of application asset compilation.

When installing new dependencies, consider whether the dependency is relevant for an individual
workspace package, or for the entire project. By default, Yarn will warn when trying to install a
dependency in the root package, since dependencies should typically be installed for a specific
workspace.

To install a dependency to a workspace:

```bash
yarn workspace @18f/identity-build-sass add sass-embedded
```

To install a dependency to the project:

```bash
# Note the `-W` flag
yarn add -W webpack
```

As much as possible, try to use the same version of a dependency when it is used across multiple
workspace packages. Otherwise, it can inflate the size of the compiled bundles and have a negative
performance impact on users. Similarly, consider using a tool like [`yarn-deduplicate`](https://github.com/scinos/yarn-deduplicate)
to deduplicate resolved package versions within the Yarn lockfile.

### Components

We use a mixture of complementary component implementation approaches to support both server-side
and client-side rendering.

#### View Components

The [ViewComponent gem](https://viewcomponent.org/) is a framework for creating reusable, testable,
and independent view components, rendered server-side.

For more information, refer to the [components `README.md`](../app/components/README.md).

#### React

For non-trivial client-side interactivity, we use [React](https://reactjs.org/) to build and combine
JavaScript components for stateful applications.

#### Custom Elements

For simple client-side interactivity tied to singular components (React or ViewComponent), we use
[native custom elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components/Using_custom_elements).

Custom elements provide several advantages in that they...

- can be initialized from any markup renderer, supporting both server-side (ViewComponent) and
  client-side (React) component implementations
- have no dependencies, limiting overall page size in the critical path
- are portable and avoid vendor lock-in (e.g. for use in a [design system](https://design.login.gov))

## Testing

### At a Glance

JavaScript tests include a combination of unit tests and integration tests, with a heavier emphasis
on integration tests since the bulk of our front-end code is in service of user interactivity.

To simplify common test behaviors and encourage best practices, we make extensive use of the
[Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/) suite of testing libraries, which can be used to
render and query [basic DOM elements](https://testing-library.com/docs/dom-testing-library/intro) as
well as advanced [React components](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro).
Their APIs are designed in a way to [accurately simulate real user behavior](https://testing-library.com/docs/user-event/intro)
and support [querying by accessible semantics](https://testing-library.com/docs/queries/byrole).

### Running Tests

#### Mocha

[Mocha](https://mochajs.org/) is used as a test runner for JavaScript code.

To run all test specs:

```
yarn test
```

To run a single test file:

```
npx mocha spec/javascripts/app/utils/ms-formatter_spec.js
```

Using `npx`, you can also pass any
[Mocha command-line arguments](https://mochajs.org/#command-line-usage).

For example, to watch a file and rerun tests after any change:

```
npx mocha spec/javascripts/app/utils/ms-formatter_spec.js --watch
```

#### ESLint

[ESLint](https://eslint.org/) is used to ensure code quality and enforce styling conventions.

To analyze all JavaScript files:

```
yarn run lint
```

Many issues can be fixed automatically by appending a `--fix` flag to the command:

```
yarn run lint --fix
```

## Debugging

### Production Errors

JavaScript errors that occur in production environments are automatically logged to NewRelic.
Because JavaScript is transpiled and minified in production, these files can be difficult to debug.
Fortunately, [NewRelic supports source maps](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/browser/browser-monitoring/browser-pro-features/upload-source-maps-un-minify-js-errors/)
to produce a readable stack trace of the original code. Sourcemaps are not generated by default in
production builds, but you can build these in your local development environment.

First, checkout the current production commit, assuming that the error is recent:

```
git checkout stages/prod
git pull
```

Then, build the JavaScript assets as a production artifact with sourcemaps enabled:

```
NODE_ENV=production WEBPACK_DEVTOOL=source-map yarn build
```

Once built, locate the `.map` file in the `assets/packs/js/` directory corresponding to the file
mentioned in the minified stack trace and drag-and-drop the file onto the NewRelic interface to
reveal the decompiled stack trace.

## Devices

The application should support:

- All browsers with >1% usage according to our own analytics
- All device sizes

## Additional Resources

You can find additional frontend documentation in relevant places throughout the code:

- [`app/components/README.md`](../app/components/README.md)
- [`app/javascript/app/README.md`](../app/javascript/app/README.md)
- [`app/javascript/packages/README.md`](../app/javascript/packages/README.md)
- [`app/javascript/packs/README.md`](../app/javascript/packs/README.md)
